# up206a-tal-angelica

**Closing Whiteman Airport: Spatializing environnmental justice in Pacoima and small airport communities in Southern California**

**INTRODUCTION**
Despite the fact that California’s economy ranks fifth in the world and is thought to house the most progressive environmental policies, many communities still face environmental injustices and are exposed to toxic substances which impact their health. The Los Angeles neighborhood of Pacoima, home to about 100,000 people - 85% Latinx and 7% Black - faces numerous environmental justice challenges (L.A. Times, Mapping L.A.). The residents of Pacoima have historical exposure to environmental racism, a result of the freeways that surround the community, toxic release sites, landfills, lead in paint and the soil, and the municipal airport (CARE Final Progress Report). In a survey conducted by Philliber and Associates from 2001-2005, over 20% of the residents in Pacoima reported to have asthma, and have some of the highest rates of asthma-related hospitalization in the state (CARE Final Progress Report). Additionally, according to the OEHHA’s CalEnviroScreen 3.0 place-based cumulative impact screening tool, about 8 per 10,000 people visit the emergency room due to a heart attack, which is higher than 45% of other California census tracts (OEHHA). Lastly, CalEnviroScreen 3.0 shows that Pacoima is in the 95th percentile--meaning that the residents living in Pacoima are more vulnerable to pollution than 95% of California (OEHHA).

As a result of the multifaceted and significant pollution that exists in Pacoima, for our research project we will focus on examining the environmental and health impact of the Whiteman Airport and toxic clean-up sites. Since Pacoima residents are exposed to numerous sources of pollutants, it would be beyond the scope of the class and our capacity to understand how all of the pollutants intertwine. As a result, we would like to compare the health impact of Whiteman Airport on Pacoima residents to other communities in Southern California that have municipal airports. Additionally, since Pacoima has a high number of toxic cleanup sites, we would like to also assess how the close proximity to those sites impacts the health of the residents. 

**Research Questions**
   * To what extent do health differences exist between Pacoima and other neighborhoods in Southern California due to air pollution exposure from small airports?
   * How does Whiteman Airport impact the health of Pacoima residents in comparison to other communities with small airports in Southern California?
   * How does close proximity to and density of toxic cleanup sites impact the health of Pacoima residents in comparison to other Southern California communities?
